"Of course, the Vajrasattva practice is the, generally, that is the principle practices,
and the addition practice is then these Gymsak practices in the Tibetan language, called Gymsak,
in Sanskrit, it's known as Yajja or the Homer, and then, I think, commonly named as fire puja,
called, but it is more than fire puja. It is visualization, it is meditation, it is vibhachana
practices, it is shamatha practices, combined with the glorified bodhicata, love and compassion,
kindness, joy, the all the goodness quality that inherited in our natural mind is pulled up and
brought up together and practicing today here. So therefore, Vajrayana practice is considering
the most powerful practices, because it's not just only emphasizing one aspect of nature of the
mind,
but it brings all the goodness qualities, every aspect, surface, deep, sight, on top, bottom,
every aspect of the beauty of the mind, the natural quality, which is often known as the Buddha
nature,
that I think many of you may be heard that name, that really brings up these. So this practice of
the Vajrasattva, practice of Vajrayana practice, not just remembering the mantra itself and that,
but if you really concentrate your mind with the song, with the breath, with the energy,
with the open, with the love, with the compassion, with the kindness, and you are middle of that
all
glorified, the beauty of the nature of the mind. That's why this is Vajrayana practice,
known as the most powerful, sweet practice of the getting enlightenment, or fulfill our goal,
that we can benefit to all beings. So therefore, that is what we practice. For example, when we
reside in the mantra, we're not just residing in the mantra, in every kind. We are residing in the
mantra with meditation, which is commonly known as samatha, vipashana combined together, your
breathing,
your air, your mind, your energy, all condensed in one single state with love and joy,
and compassion. That is the most powerful practice, very soothing, calming,
and very beautiful, rewarding practices. That is what Vajrayasatva practices. When we visualize the
Vajrayasatva, for example, in the beginning of time, many of you know the mantra, the dharma,
red, and so I don't have to repeat again and again that, because then you receive this teaching,
that means we have to keep that practice, not just a record, or I want that practices,
I want that teaching, I want that, I want that. If we started thinking that, then we are not
almost like we are kind of ignoring the practices. We're not really keeping up the practice up to
current, but you sense you went so many teachings and so many practices, this is now we are keeping
up that. You are, we are in that status. For example, in the beginning of time here, here in the
this is the reminder of our meditation, our zukkin meditation, our vipachana meditation,
our shamatha medit, reminder of the shamatha meditations. That means removing all the duality,
habejapatam, publications that are bothering our life, up to life, we will put that
completely removed or read out. We are sitting right center of the true nature itself,
self and this, that is the reminding. And so this, look at this, how beautiful this practice begins
.
Om is all this phenomena existing, Om generally symbolize the body aspect of the Buddha,
Buddha often known as this poem, permission. And of course, also Om has meanings, Sanskrit
language has many different natural meanings to that. But this time Om is all the permission,
all phenomena existing, that all phenomena existing is also so harmonizing, so archbishops,
archbishops means harmonizing, how beautiful, how balanced, but yet it is as it said in Maha Shun
eta.
Maha means great, great. And Shuneta means emptiness, the openness, the great openness.
The great emptiness, great infinite. This means all phenomena existing of this
is great openness, great harmonizing and great infinite status.
That Shuneta, Maha Shuneta, openness is not just weak Shuneta, weak, blank emptiness.
That's what he said, Jana Benjara. Jana is wisdom. Wisdom many times we think is kind of
intelligence,
it's true is intelligence and knowledge, but wisdom is combined with compassion. The true
wisdom is compassion, true wisdom is love, it's caring, concerning, knowing of what things
happen in the phenomena world, exactly. Therefore you are outreaching, unconditional, outreaching,
call it, serpentine without burden, without heavy, that is the intelligence. So this great Shuneta
is filled with that Jana. Jana is Sanskrit word, again wisdom, the primordial wisdom.
And then what he said next, Vajra. Vajra of course many of again you all know this,
Vajra is indestructible, unchangeable, unbreakable. This nature of love and compassion of wisdom
that filled with openness is inseparable, inbreakable, inbreakable, indestructible.
That is the beauty of the nature of this mind. Yet even though it is inbreakable, even though
it is indestructible, yet it has no kind of like burden to us. For example our love and compassion
is filled with the nature of the mind, mind but there's no burden, no is kind of like any
kind of like this drugging. It is so open and so relaxed yet is indestructible, in unseparable
status. And that is what we are practicing here. Vajrasad of practice is that is what
practicing. Compassion and love target them and wisdom, that is practice. And Vajra Kala is
practice,
that is what is practices. And that then is what said so bhava. So bhava is what? This beautiful
openness, the great emptiness, intelligence was inseparable. It's not just born from somewhere else
,
or it came from somewhere else, or it's not kindly we got that later while ago, or once
and while we get that. But no, it is natural. Therefore it's so bhava means nature. It's a
natural qualities. It is with us. And today for example practice of Vajrasad, we're revealing
that qualities. This is hidden, blurred, obscured by our own actions of the ego clingings,
ego maniacs, and ego obscurations. It was obscured, not just obscured for one time or three times.
This has been the life after life because ego is very tricky, tricky. Ego is very naive in one way.
And ego is many times put a very kind of low key, low key naive. It tricks us.
And it's manipulation, it manipulates. It carried and then what it does, it just drags down us,
pulls down in the ditch one after another. And therefore habit pattern, the bad habit pattern,
is so easy to catch. It's kind of soothing in one way. That is tricky. Ego is tricky.
And ego is obstacle. But this nature is always abiding, no matter whatever the situation,
circumstances we go through, is altered. And that's what it says. It's so bhava. It's so bhava.
And then next sentence here, what is it? Next word, atma, guham. Atma means ego. Atma is ego.
And atma is grasping and clinging. Grasping and clinging, no matter whatever we're grasping,
clinging it. It is source of pain, source of suffering. When we don't have the grasping and
clinging, our nature flows so beautifully. Love and compassion and wisdom come so easily.
And this is always, it brings the bright, always bright. But ego and grasping and clinging,
it is obstacle. And therefore, this is free from the obstacle. Atma, guham. Free from the
atma, free from the ego. Ego, guham. So this is the really the, in one way, this whole sentence,
this Sanskrit is the reminding of, of all our practices, or this is the congruence of the
practice of our vajasattva. Jamsic practices, vajasattva practice. Then it went a little bit
elaborated, and it's translated. I don't have to translate it. And how beautiful is it? All
phenomena samsara and nirvana are organically unborn, emptiness-proof. All phenomena of the
samsara and nirvana are organically unborn, emptiness-proof, which, which then unceasing
emanation of compassion. And this is so beautiful, you know. When you join this, it's so calming,
so soothing. We reach the, go to the new levels of our, where we are, we used to be. It's something
very soothing. And that all begins. And then the beautiful display begins, one after another.
The unfolding display of the vajasattva. So beautiful. This is the words of the Gopeng
Masambha. Words of the great master, Junmi Dorji, the manateeji. It's a vital word. Each
sentence really begins. So beautiful, it's unfolding. So this soothing, calming, there's
no kind of like partitions or kind of propagations. Blore, so calm, soothing. You just say kind of,
almost like that, what's called? Sailing. Sailing your sailboat, very calm ocean.
Just, oh, you reach the cruise level. Completely cruise level. Relax and rest and there's nothing.
Now enjoy the panoramic of the beauty. And that's really how it is. All that begins. So this is the
what we practice. This is the all combination of the like, as I said, Shama practices,
Vibhachana practice, all that. For example, when we reside in a mantra, not just a kind of
reside in a mantra and mind is wondering, but when you reside in a mantra, when you reside in a
mantra, we stay with that sound. Stay with this spray, this spray what you shine. Radiating light,
a compassion, love, and all this, then we are really the most powerful state of meditation.
Vibhachana meditation, all that. Not just a kind of like forceful meditation, just kind of holding,
so steady in like this. But we realize and yet we experience the mostly deepest state of the
nature of the mind and nature and all that. So therefore, when we reside in mantra, again,
with this, trying to bring up those beautiful qualities. Look at this here. This, what it does.
Not just we are residing in a mantra, say this word with it up and down. But here, for example,
in page 17, here, see it. See it. And I mean, just you read. We read this. Spreading light and
making offerings to the noble ones and gathering all their blessings and purifying the obscurations
of all the sentient beings, not just a one or two or three or four, or not just a group,
but all the beings purifying. And then that again brings what? The light returns and
emerges in the once a mantra garlandess. And so beautiful actions all happening everywhere we
reside in mantra. All beautiful, beneficial activities really happening in visible,
in the cyber highway, in a way, cyber, that you're sending emanating that, that in performance. And
that's why all those great masters achieved such a high realization. These masters, we call open
masters, but they are great practitioners. They practice. They're great at the courage and
commitment, the joyful effort, love and compassion. That's what we call the great masters. And they
did this practice in performing all these beautiful activities and actualizing many different
levels
of the fulfillment to benefit one's own or themselves to the other.